Alif Lam Meem, Allah, la ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa lima bayna yadehi wa anzala al-Tawrat wa al-Injeel,
min qabnu hudan lil-Nas wa anzala al-Furqan,
inna allatheena kafiru bi ayatillahi lahum ʿadabuhu shadeed,
wa Allah hua ʿazeezu ʿindhu ʿuntiqan,
inna allaha la yakhda ʿalayhi shajad fi al-ardi wa la fi al-samad.
We are moving through the story of the life of the most blessed of creation,
the final of messengers Muhammad ibn Abdullah al-Hashimi al-Qurashi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
A point of clarification, I was asked a question earlier today regarding the well of Zamzam.
The question was, we made mention of Abdul Muttalib having had the privilege to dig,
because he saw in his dream where the well was.
When he dug it, it began to gush.
So, didn't we hear before that Ibrahim a.s.'s time,
there was Hajar a.s., the mother of Ismail,
who was running between Safa and Marwa and then the well began to gush?
The answer is yes, that is when the well started.
That is the first appearance of the water of Zamzam was at the time of Ismail a.s.,
when he was a little child.
But if you take a careful look, you will come to learn that after some time,
it was blocked because of the floods and because of various other reasons
connected to the weather and so on.
And what had happened thereafter is that at the time of Abdul Muttalib,
it was made to gush forth once again.
So this was the second time that the Zamzam had gushed.
Now we are moving on to Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
where he used to, as we said, see dreams and the following day it would be completely true.
Whatever he saw was true.
Why was this the beginning of prophethood or early signs?
Because according to what we are taught by Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
when a prophet of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam sees a dream,
it is revelation, it is the truth.
They have to act upon it and it is not false at all.
Like you know, Ibrahim a.s. saw in his dream that he was sacrificing his son.
That was considered an instruction of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
It was revelation.
So the same applies early when Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
began to see a dream and then the following day it would be completely true.
This was the early signs.
Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was purifying him and raising his level.
Thereafter he used to go into the Mount of Hira, the cave of Hira
as we heard yesterday north west of Mecca.
We ask Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam to take us to Mecca time and again
and we ask Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam to refresh us and rejuvenate us
so that we can worship him at all times,
worship our Maker and none other than the Maker.
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam bless us.
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam used to see the dreams
and thereafter he used to go into this cave and meditate.
Meditate in seclusion, subhanallah.
He used to ponder over the condition of the people of Mecca
and try and ponder over solutions, number one.
Number two is he used to worship Allah and praise Allah
according to the teachings of Ibrahim a.s.
and that was the monotheism, the one Allah.
He used to praise the Creator and the one whom he will return to
and this was what he used to engage in the worship of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
People might wonder, well what worship did he engage in?
He worshiped Allah alone.
He never ever bowed to an idol, nor did he bow to people,
nor did he engage in tawaf around the Kaaba
whilst those idols were there.
No, he did not.
Meaning in the pre-Islamic time he did not do it for the idols
but he did it for the pleasure of his Maker
for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala instructed him to do that.
Also we learnt that some of the various creatures
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala used to greet him
like we spoke about the stone twice.
This is the third time I'm mentioning it
and Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam says,
I know a stone or a rock in Mecca
that used to actually greet me sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
So one day what happened is as he was in the cave
and this was the 21st day of Ramadan,
the 21st night, in fact the eve, Ramadan,
when he was 40 years old
and suddenly in that cave appeared the angel,
Jibril alaihi wasallam
and Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
obviously it was something different for him.
He was concerned, he was worried to a great degree
and Jibril alaihi wasallam came to him
and tells him, Iqra, read.
First words, revelation coming down from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Revelation came down in several forms.
One of them was this way,
when Jibril alaihi wasallam was sent by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and he came and he instilled it
into the heart of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
in a way that it will never be forgotten.
This is why today when you learn something in memory,
they say this person learnt it off by heart,
which means solid, placed in the heart.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala solidify
the memorization that we have of the Quran.
Every one of us have contributed in one way or another
towards the preservation of the Quran
by memorizing even if it means Surah al-Fatiha.
Today we read it so many times, I'm sure,
every one of us knows it off by heart.
And if we don't,
then there is something wrong with us being Muslim.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection.
So we have all memorized a portion of the Quran,
every single one of us without exception, subhanallah.
So this is the gift of Allah.
The Prophet Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam's heart
had within it the Quran placed
by Jibreel alayhi salatu wa salam
by the will of Allah, the power of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So this man, 40 years old, that's not a child,
he's old and he was being told read.
So what happened?
He said, ma ana bi qari, I can't read,
I'm not a reader.
He was unlettered, remember Allah says,
the bulk of them were unlettered.
Huwa allathee ba'athafil ummiyeena rasoolan minhum.
It is Allah who sent a messenger
amongst the unlettered one from amongst them to them.
So the bulk of them were unlettered.
He was honest enough to say, I am unlettered.
How many of us here would want to admit
that we know nothing about technology at all?
Imagine holding your mobile phone
the other way around on your ear.
Would anyone want to admit
that we don't know how to operate this gadget?
No matter what, I have actually seen people
who read books the other way around.
And it's only the photograph that makes them know
that this is how you're gonna hold it.
And even then they make mistakes
and they're supposed to be rulers of the world at times.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may He make us from amongst those
who realize and understand.
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
was not a proud man.
He was honest.
He was dignified, straightforward,
trustworthy, truthful.
He says, maa ana biqari.
So Jibril alaihi wasallam embraced him
and hugged him tight until he was almost suffocating
and then released him and told him again, iqra.
So he says, maa ana biqari, I am not a reader.
You're asking me to read, I am not a reader.
So Jibril alaihi wasallam, the archangel Gabriel,
may peace be upon him, embraced him once again
and hugged him tight until he almost suffocated
and then released him again.
And he says, iqra for the third time.
And Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
for the third time says, maa ana biqari.
He embraced him for the third time and released him.
The verses were revealed.
Iqra, bismi rabbika allathee khalaqa.
Khalaqa al-insana min alaqa.
Iqra, warabbuka al-akramu allathee aallama bil-qalam.
Aallama al-insana maa lam ya'alam.
Stop there.
Subhanallah.
Five verses revealed one time.
What were they?
Read, read in the name of your Lord who has created.
The term Lord is not the proper translation of Rabb
because Rabb means the creator, nourisher, cherisher,
sustainer, provider, protector,
the one in supreme control, absolute control
of every aspect of every creature in creation.
That is the term Rabbun used to refer to that deity.
So Allah says, read in the name of your Rabb
who has created.
Created absolutely everything.
But here created what?
Iqra, bismi rabbika allathee khalaqa.
Firstly created absolutely everything
but he created man from a clot of blood.
Khalaqa al-insana min alaqa.
He created man from a clot of blood.
Now some people look at the Quran and say,
well there is a contradiction
because in one place Allah says created from dust,
one place He says soil,
one place He says clay,
one place He says semen,
one place He says a clot of blood and so on.
There is no contradiction.
These are the different phases and stages
in the creation of man.
Initially dust, soil, clay.
Once the first human being was created,
the second one was created from his rib
and once those two were created,
the semen was used.
When semen and as you know,
when the zygote is formed
and the embryo begins to grow,
it's a clot of blood initially
and thereafter it begins to gain form and so on.
Subhanallah.
So this is Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
making mention of the different stages
within the creation of man.
No contradiction.
خَلَقَ الْإِنسَانَ مِنْ عَلَكَ
اِقْرَءُ وَرَبُكَ الْأَكْرَمُ
Read and you should know that your Rabb
is the most generous, al-Akram,
the most generous, the most honouring.
Allahu Akbar.
Allah has just honoured him with prophethood
and Allah has honoured and favoured us all
and humanity at large by granting them nubuwa.
Imagine what love Allah had had
for the people of Quraysh
for raising from their midst
a nabi, a precious jewel,
a person who would come and change the whole globe.
Subhanallah.
Imagine the love of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for those who were the household
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
who accepted his message instantaneously
as we will see a little bit later.
And this is why we say at that moment
what had happened on earth
was something changing the entire earth.
Allah blessed the inhabitants of the earth
by sending Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
at that time.
The period of darkness
where women were being oppressed
from left to right, east to west, north to south.
Everywhere there were wars,
there was feud, the order of the day.
What was it?
It was chaos, oppression.
Those who were strong ruled.
Those who were weak were downtrodden.
They were oppressed and enslaved at times.
Three men were enslaved
just because they were not recognised
or they did not have a clan
to protect them against the tyrants.
And this is what was the order of the day.
And if you take a look at the gift of Allah,
these people were worshipping stones
and sticks and idols and people
and so many other things.
And they had lots of superstition in them.
What a blessed gift of Allah.
Allah is sending a messenger from amongst them
to say, worship your maker and your maker alone
and do not associate partnership with your maker.
Al-Ladhiy al-Lama bil-Qalam
Your Rabb, the one who taught by the pen.
Al-Lama al-Insana ma lam ya'lam
He taught man what man did not know.
What man did not know.
What did man know at the beginning?
Nothing. As time is passing,
Allah is allowing us to know more and more
certain things we will never be able to explain
such as a dream.
When you dream, what do you dream?
How do you dream?
They still have not developed a little flash stick
that you can plug into your ear
and choose to dream what you would like.
That hasn't yet happened.
Allahu Akbar.
And I don't think it's coming.
This is a gift of Allah.
You dream, you can be dreaming of the best dream.
The person next to you can be having the worst dream.
The two of you will be one in peace
and the other in torment.
When you get up, Subhanallah,
neither can feel what happened to the other.
That's a gift of Allah.
Allah says, we taught man what he did not know.
That's Allah Subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Think of his greatness.
And Allah is telling us,
وَمَا أُوْتِيتُمْ مِنَ الْعِلْمِ إِلَّا قَلِيلًا
And you have not been granted knowledge except but a little.
Still, whatever you have is just a droplet.
Subhanallah.
A long time ago when people used to be told
of how the angels write down everything you utter
and it is written and it will come on the day of Qiyamah
and it will be weighed on the scales,
literally weighing on the scales.
People began to say, how will the books look?
They will look like this
and they will look like that.
Today you have a 64 gigabyte little chip
smaller than the size of my nail
and in it you can have 6400 libraries full of books
and still they will be space.
Subhanallah.
Look at this.
And people used to say, how will that happen?
Today when you talk, the computer registers,
the iPhone registers, the Android device registers
and people wonder, how will these angels register?
Allahu Akbar.
Look, a few years ago it was not dreamt of
that your phone will listen to your instruction.
Today it's there.
Today people speak to the doors.
They tell the door to open, it opens with your voice.
Anyone else's voice, it doesn't open.
You come to the door, it recognizes you by your eye
and it opens for you.
It's happening.
Where do you think you're going to run away
from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and his forces?
That Rabb who gave us out of the little knowledge
that we have, the understanding of so much,
do you not think he is able to absolutely have
the record of every droplet that has occurred
from the beginning of time right to the end of time?
Subhanarabbiya al-A'la.
So Allah says, read in the name of your Rabb.
We learn a lot from this
and I need to pause for a moment.
Firstly, the first words that were revealed
to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
read, the man is unlettered.
We would not say uneducated
because he was highly educated,
but he was unlettered.
And why unlettered?
Allah kept it that way for a reason.
Because the people of the book,
a lot of them barely knew Arabic.
And what had happened is,
he did not know how to read the other languages.
So amazingly you will find
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has covered him.
Nobody can say he read from those people.
No one can say he sat and communicated with them.
No, he was unlettered.
This thing came, the whole universe acknowledges
that this was an unlettered man.
Subhanarabbiya al-A'la.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless us
and to open our doors.
Yet we, we can read every booklet.
We still haven't read the main book.
Think of it.
He could not read,
but he knew that book of Bayhat.
We can read and write and we are proud
and we send our children to school from an early age.
We're so excited when they can say A to Z
all the way at the age of three and two
and we get so happy.
But they still haven't read the Quran
and they still don't know
what the whole world is all about.
And some of us are still guilty of that.
Yet we are 40, 50, 60 years old.
Not once did we read the meaning of the Quran.
It happens.
This is the weakness of man.
And yet the first word to be revealed is Iqra.
If you're not going to read the word of Allah,
what are you going to read?
So this is a challenge to you all and to myself.
Read the word of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
before your time is up.
You are not going to have a response
when Allah asks you, I reveal the word read.
Did you read my word?
What are we going to say?
La ilaha illa Allah.
There can be no more powerful statement than that.
Iqra, bismi rabbik, read in the name of Allah.
When we start reading the Quran,
a'udhu billahi minash shaytanir rajeem,
bismillahir rahmanir raheem.
I seek the protection of Allah from shaytan, the accursed.
In the name of Allah, the most gracious, most merciful.
Then we start reading.
We started in the name of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
This also shows us that what seems impossible
in this world.
If we say the name of Allah, it becomes possible.
It becomes easy for us.
Allah facilitates it for us.
And this is why there is a hadith
where the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
kullu amrin, the ibadin,
lam yubtada ufihi bismillahi fahuwa aqta.
Anything important that you start without the name of Allah,
it is cut, cut of blessings, cut of simplicity,
cut of all forms of goodness,
you won't achieve anything good.
So whatever you are doing,
get in the habit of saying bismillah
because in this way,
Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam who was unlettered,
he started and was instructed to start in the name of Allah
to read and Allah opened his doors with us.
If we use the name of Allah,
Allah opens the doors within our homes,
within our businesses, within our families,
within our societies, with our health, our wealth,
absolutely every aspect of existence.
Whatever you do, bismillah, get into that habit.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Another thing we need to know,
nothing is impossible for Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Nothing.
Miracles can happen, have happened,
are happening and shall happen.
Remember that.
Nothing is impossible for Allah.
So just continue praying to Allah.
Whatever you want,
don't lose hope in the mercy of Allah.
Make sure you are on the right page.
Sometimes we are not only on the wrong page,
we are in a different book
and we're calling to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
What this means is our food is haram,
our drink is haram, everything is haram.
How are we going to get our dua responded?
A person whose food is haram, drinking is haram,
his entire diet is haram,
everything he has consumed, his clothing, the works, haram.
Then he wants to say,
Ya Rabbi, Ya Rabbi,
how does he expect the dua to be accepted?
This is why when we are making dua,
start off also by saying,
Oh Allah, forgive me.
Ya Allah, I've committed sin.
Those which I know, those which I don't.
Those which I committed in secret,
those which I committed openly.
You forgive me.
You know better than me
what sins I have committed.
Ya Allah, forgive me.
Allahu akbar.
And this is why when it comes to sins and their effect,
you need to know those who do not dress appropriately.
They want to show their aura.
They want to show their private parts,
whether it be hair, whether it be legs,
whether it be the chest or the cleavage,
whether it be going right up to the top of your hand and so on.
When a woman is supposed to be covered
and a man is supposed to be covered,
those who expose,
the ulama have said it is a sign
that somewhere down the line they have consumed haram,
either riba or either something
that has earned the wrath of Allah
that they have put into their mouth.
Where did we get this from?
فَأَكَلَى مِنْهَا فَبَدَتْ لَهُمَا سَوْأَتُهُمَا
Allahu akbar.
Adam and Hawwa, when they ate haram,
their shame was exposed.
You find they now,
everything that was supposed to be covered
began to become exposed.
And the same happens to us now.
Eat haram and you feel like uncovering your legs.
What happens? You want to uncover.
You don't get peace unless your hair is open.
Something somewhere down the line is wrong.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a turning point.
I know what I have said is very heavy,
but wallahi sometimes we need a push
before we can actually obey the commands of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala write this for us
and not against us.
May He make us from those whose hearts are softened
when we hear something like this
and not from amongst those
whose hearts become even more hardened.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has blessed us
by revealing these as the first verses.
And here there are some secrets of the creation of man,
how man was created.
These people of Quraish,
they had no clue before how man was created.
They did not know the beginning.
They never believed in anything
besides their idols and stones and so on.
It was just the people of the book,
the Jews and the Christians who were before,
who had the correct knowledge
of how man was created and so on.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all.
So what happened to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
at that stage?
Amazingly, he was now cold.
He was worried in awe, we would say.
He rushed down from the mount.
Jibril alayhi salam had disappeared
and this man rushes down.
Where did he go?
He went to the one whom he trusted the most
at the time, his own beloved wife.
How many of us, the most trustworthy to us
are our wives?
Don't worry, if your answer is no,
we ask the wives, why is the answer no?
Allahu akbar.
So it's not only your fault.
Sometimes it's even her fault
because remember nowadays both of us
need a lot of attention.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
When I say attention,
I'm talking of panel beating.
I'm not talking of attention as in,
you know, giving someone as much attention as possible.
No, that is there.
But we require correction, both of us.
No one party can say,
no, she's wrong, I'm right.
He's wrong, I'm right.
No, it takes two, subhanallah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
and open our doors.
With Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
he was such an upright man.
When he ran down,
he knew he could trust his wife.
Today they say,
you tell your wife something the whole dunya knows.
I hope that's not the case with us.
But they say, you want to spread news?
It's email.
Faster than email is female.
Allahu akbar, Allah protect us.
I hope that's not true.
But sometimes this is what goes on.
When someone has entrusted you with a secret,
you take it to the grave.
Believe me, you take it to the grave.
Look at the quality.
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam rushing down.
What does he say?
He comes down and he is sweating.
And he is now feeling cold.
And he is now in awe.
And he is shivering.
And he is saying,
zammilooni, zammilooni,
cover me, cover me.
What has happened?
His wife, beloved,
Khadijah binti Khuwairid radiallahu anha
immediately covers him.
And she says, what is happening?
What is wrong?
And he narrates what had happened.
And she says,
kalla wallahi laa yukhzeekallahu abada
Nay, never.
Allah will never ever let you down.
Nothing bad can happen to you.
You are such an upright man.
You assist those in need.
You fulfill your family ties.
You help the widows and the orphans.
You always are out helping people.
You have such great character and conduct.
And she began singing praise.
Why singing praise?
Because this man was indeed the one
who was really as she was mentioning.
With us, your wife tells you,
oh, you're such a wonderful man.
But inside, she knows,
I have to say this because I need something.
It happens sometimes.
If you ask her,
you love me the most,
she says, I love you the most.
Insha'Allah, I hope it's the case.
But sometimes she has to say it
because what option does she have?
Allahu akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala save us.
With her, she was honest.
This was a time of need.
And she knew the man is upright.
What has he ever done?
He's been a person who's concerned.
He worships not the idols.
Never has he worshiped an idol.
He didn't drink.
His tongue was so clean.
He never swore.
He never spoke slang.
May Allah protect us from slang.
It reduces the value and respect of an individual
when he speaks slang,
no matter who it is.
And that is in the hadith of Rasulullah
sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
We, including myself,
we are guilty sometimes of what?
Uttering a word or two of slang,
just to make it sound lighter
and to bring it closer to the heart.
We should try and avoid that.
Speak clear language.
And you don't need to speak so difficult language
that people don't understand you.
Speak in a way that everyone can comprehend
and understand.
Subhanallah.
So she mentioned so many of his good qualities
and she says, don't worry, don't worry.
As she is covering him,
she then decides,
let me do this man a favor
by taking him to my cousin Waraka ibn Nawfal.
He was a man who read and wrote.
He was very well-versed, highly educated.
He was an alim,
according to what we would say.
Alim meaning he had knowledge of the deen
and the religion.
And he read the previous books
and he had links
with some of the people of the book.
And so when Khadija binti Khuwailid
radiallahu anha took this man,
immediately, the husband, imagine,
he was 40 years old.
We said 21st of Ramadan.
She was 55 years old,
according to the bulk of the narrations.
And what happened is,
she's now taking her husband and going.
They had had children, subhanallah.
They had already had their children,
subhanallah.
And she is taking him
and going to Waraka ibn Nawfal.
And when they went, she says,
oh, my cousin, listen to my husband.
What has happened to him?
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
narrates the story to Waraka ibn Nawfal.
Waraka was a man who was awaiting prophethood.
He knew that the prophet is about to come
any minute now in this region.
He was also one of them who was waiting.
So when he was told a man came to me,
the angel came to me,
and this is what happened.
He revealed to me, iqra.
Who was the first person
who heard the words of revelation?
Besides Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
hearing it straight from Jibreel alayhi salam,
it was Khadija.
Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha.
She heard these verses.
So she was the first human being
to listen to verses of the Quran
after Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
And she took this man to Waraka
and Waraka heard the verses
and he says, no,
that is definitely the angel
that came to Moses
and the angel that came to Jesus.
May peace be upon them all.
Musa alayhi salam,
Isa alayhi salatu was salam.
That is the same angel,
Jibreel alayhi salatu was salam.
And if this man is saying the truth,
then very soon he will be sent to his people.
And I wish I had had youth in me
to be there the day
that he will be driven away from his own people.
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam looks
and he is now confused.
Are they going to boot me out, my people?
He says, I wish I will be there
the day your people kick you out.
Your own clan, tribesmen,
I wish I will be there that day.
Now remember, this was just revelation.
This was prophethood.
Allah did not instruct him yet
to go out and preach.
No, that hadn't yet come.
This was only prophethood.
It was the beginning.
And Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was being calmed down by his wife.
And Allah had placed her so strategically
because she had had the qualities
that were needed to really calm this man
and to be a comfort and support for him
at that particular time.
No one but her would have done that.
Look at how his business deals
brought him to this woman
and how this woman was also prepared
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for this particular purpose.
Radhiallahu anha.
So what happened?
He says, yes.
Anyone who has come with anything
similar to what you have come with
has been fought and fought heavily.
Allahu Akbar.
Anyone who has brought prophethood
and come to correct people
has been fought up to today.
Nearly every society and community on the globe.
Whenever there is a man who gets up
and tells them as is,
there are a few people who fight that man.
Always.
Nearly every...
I hope we're taking out
a few good societies from there.
Nearly every community.
When a man comes and warns people
and tells them and gives them
a bit of what we would term today,
you know, a true word,
a word of advice, subhanallah.
People don't like it sometimes.
You know, you get the haughty
who don't want to be told.
Sometimes you have in a masjid,
they tell you don't talk about interest here.
Don't talk about music here.
Don't talk about adultery here.
Don't talk about illegitimate children here.
What?
I have come across this.
I don't know if you have.
Why would they do that?
Because they have the clout
and they're all involved
in that type of misbehavior.
They don't want to be told.
When they come to the masjid,
they want it to just be
smoothing to the ears.
Come and listen to,
read Salah, give Zakah,
go for Hajj,
do this, do that, and that's it.
Don't even say be truthful.
Stop lying, stop eating interest.
Don't even say that
because you're going to trample
the feet of those who are haughty.
Allah protect us.
This is the downfall of society.
This is what happened.
Waraka bin Nawfal says
anyone who came with this message
was fought by their own people, subhanallah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
not make us those
who fight the messengers
who come to us.
Allahu Akbar.
So here Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
is told that you know what?
A time will come
when Jibreel will come again
and he will give you revelation
and I wish I'm there.
If I am alive, Waraka says,
I will support you with full support,
full backing of mine you will have.
Sadly, few days later he passed away.
Waraka bin Nawfal.
Only Allah knows his position.
Only Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
knows exactly where he is.
There are some narrations
which make mention of his forgiveness
and so on.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
treat him with his mercy
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
treat us all with his mercy.
So this was Waraka bin Nawfal.
So now Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
him and his wife, subhanallah,
Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha,
she believed completely
there was no question of a question.
No need to ask
because she knew what had gone on.
So she was the first who actually believed.
Now what had happened?
There was a period of time,
a few days wherein revelation stopped.
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
would go back
and he would meditate once again.
Some narrations say
it was a very long period of time.
No, the most correct narrations
make mention of a 10-day gap.
10-day gap meaning
21st of Ramadan
up to the first of Shawwal.
Now if you take a careful look,
he used to go every day
and meditate in seclusion.
We are all encouraged
to engage in Ibadah
and worship Allah in seclusion as well.
And do you know what?
Those particular 10 days
are actually a Sunnah
to engage in I'tikaaf.
I'tikaaf meaning
you sit in seclusion
in the house of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
pondering over your weakness,
how you can correct yourself,
how you can be improved
and you worship Allah alone
and you increase your tilawa,
recitation of the Quran,
understanding of it,
your Salah and so on.
May Allah make us from those
who can engage in this I'tikaaf.
So the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
from the 21st,
the 22nd, the 23rd,
he was waiting for revelation to come again
as per what Waraqa ibn Nawfal told him.
And what happened?
The revelation did not come.
So Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
was getting a bit worried.
And then on the 1st of Shawwal
it is reported that
that is when he was walking this hadith,
this hadith of Jabir radiallahu anhu
which is mentioned in Sahih al-Bukhari
where Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
says whilst I was walking
I looked up
and I saw the angel Jibril
in his original form.
You know what the original form is?
Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
saw Jibril many times
but most of the times
he was in the form of a man,
a very handsome man.
And when he came in the form of a man
there were times when his companions
have also seen him.
Like the ones he came
and he sat with Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and he was asking him some questions.
And then when he went away
the sahabah radiallahu anhu
say that we saw this man coming
he had white clothes,
he had black hair
with nobody knew him
which means he was not from anywhere near
but he looked like he had not
undertaken any journey whatsoever
and he came in and he sat with his knees
right in front of
with the knees of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
utmost respect
he is asking questions
when the answer comes
he says yes you are right.
And they say we were surprised
how come this man is asking
and he is also saying you are right.
Imagine someone asks you
how old are you
and you say fifty
and he says you are right
Allahu akbar
he says well why did you ask me?
So when he went away
Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam says
do you know who that was?
They said Allah and His messenger
said no best
that was Jibreel
he came to you to teach you your religion
in the form of a Q&A
Allahu akbar
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala benefit us
and may He grant us goodness.
So when Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
saw Jibreel alaihi wasallam
he says I looked up
and I saw
Jibreel alaihi wasallam
he covered the sky
the whole sky
in his original form
he was seen twice
by Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
once
was on this occasion
that we are talking about
when the second set of verses were revealed
he had 600 wings
each wing from the east to the west
you cannot see where it starts
and you cannot see where it ends
subhanallah
laahu 600 janah
600 wings
this angel Jibreel alaihi wasallam
in his original form
the second time Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
saw him was Mi'raj
I'm sure we all are aware
of the incident of the ascension
into the heavens of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
yes
on that occasion also he saw
Jibreel alaihi wasallam
in his original form
so when he saw this angel
he immediately was in awe once again
and he was concerned again
he ran back to his home
and as he is running
asking for cover
the verses are then revealed
into his heart
sallallahu alaihi wasallam
يَا أَيُّهَا الْمُدَّثِّرْ
قُمْ فَأَنذِرْ
وَرَبَّكَ فَكَبِّرْ
وَثِيَابَكَ فَطَهِّرْ
وَالْرُّجْزَ فَهْجُرْ
وَلَا تَمْنُونْ تَسْتَكْثِرْ
وَلِ رَبِّكَ فَصْبِرْ
those are the verses
they came down
that was now an instruction
let's go through the meaning of it
يَا أَيُّهَا الْمُدَّثِّرْ
oh you who is enveloped in garments
he was already enveloped in garments
covered in garments
قُمْ فَأَنذِرْ
get up and warn
so he was now instructed
to deliver the message
get up
and you know to get up means
be brave
get up
don't worry
Allah is there
if someone tells you
get up and walk
or get up and tell the people
it's much more stronger
than a person who tells you
just sit down and quietly
just mention this
stand up
eloquence
it is a message
a powerful message
get up and warn
from this we know the sunnah
when Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
used to deliver his sermons
ninety percent of the time
if not more
he was standing
unless there was a reason
for him to sit
he was standing
so this is the sunnah
قُمْ فَأَنذِرْ
get up and warn
warn who
the people
warn those
and Allah سبحانه وتعالى
then later on
broadened the circle
as we will come to see
قُمْ فَأَنذِرْ
وَرَبَّكَ فَكَبِّرْ
and your Rabb
He is the one
whom you should declare
the greatness of
nobody else
so we neither worship sticks
no stones
no idols
nothing
no takbeer
for anything besides Allah
nothing
the greatest is always
Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Allah أكبر
Allah is the greatest
so رَبَّكَ فَكَبِّرْ
as for your Rabb
what should you do
you should declare his praise
and his praise alone
وَثِيَابَكَ فَطَحِرْ
as for your clothing
you make sure that they are pure
clean
clean from any dirt
clean from any form of impurity
so the clothing is clean
and also
presentable in the sense that
when we want to give a message
we need to be presentable
presentable according to what we have
sometimes people may not have
there were times when Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
used to wear
clothing which had so many patches on it
because that was the best he had
and there were times later on
when he told people who had patches
to go and get changed
and to come back with clothing
according to their financial standing
he told them
لِيَظْهَرْ أَثَرَ نِعْمَةَ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكَ
when Allah has blessed you
then the blessing of Allah
should be visible on you
thank Allah by using what he gave you
so those who now
and I have seen some brothers
Allah سبحانه وتعالى
guide me, guide us all
who intentionally make patches
and instead of you know
just admitting that they following
styles and designs
they say it's a Sunnah
Sunnah to have patches
no, it's a Sunnah only
when you cannot afford it
and you have to have those patches
that was the only time
that Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
had had patches
but when he could afford it
he did not have those patches
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
grant us a deep understanding
so Allah is saying
ثيابك فطهر
والرجز فهجر
everything dirty, impure
leave it
whether it is bad character
bad conduct, bad behavior
foul language, impurity
in terms of worship
all that, chase it away
be far away from that
ولا تمنون تستكثر
and do not go and brag
about something you've done
in order to try and get more
or raise attention
today we do something small
and then we want the whole world
to know we did this
there are very few who will tell you
I don't want to be known
Allahu Akbar
and they will stick to that
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
bless us all
sometimes we do a small favor for someone
but the way we brag about it
they actually begin to feel that
I hope that this man
had not done me this favor
because the bragging of it
is far more valuable
or far more
it has exceeded the value of the gift
they actually have engaged in
may Allah protect us
this does not mean we should forget
the goodness someone has done to us
but it does mean when we do good
we should forget it
do it for the sake of Allah
اِنَّمَا نُطُعِمُكُمْ لِوَجَيْهِ اللَّهِ
لا نُرِيدُ مِنكُمْ جَزَاءٌ وَلَا شُكُورًا
in Surah Al-Dahra
Allah says
indeed we feed you for the sake of Allah
we don't want from you any recompense
nor do we want a thanks
we just will suffice with the reward
that Allah has given us
may Allah make us from those
who can suffice with the reward
that Allah has given us
remember when we brag about things
we reduce the reward
and when we think okay it's me who did this
some people come and say
you know who put you on your feet
it was me
it wasn't you it was Allah
because your feet and my feet
are all in the hands of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
we need to know that
so never ever tell someone
you know I'm the one who put you on the map
and I'm the one who did this
no, that map belongs to Allah
you and me
we all on that map
if Allah wills
and we all off it if Allah wills
so it's Allah
let's relate things to Allah
this is why in the Quran Allah says
O you who believe do not nullify the reward of your charities
and your good deeds
by bragging about it
and by harming people after that
be careful
don't harm the people relax
because if there is a nobleman
he will come up
and he will pick up the fact
that you are bragging
and you are harming
and he will disassociate himself from you
in a very beautiful way
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala beautify us
may He rectify our habits
and may He make us from those who are humble
these are the first words of instruction to Allah
meaning from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
laa tam nun tas takthir
don't go bragging
don't go mentioning
or seeking a bigger reward
than what you have actually planted
and bragging about things in a way
that now you want so much
because obviously all the goodness
that was to come thereafter
was from Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
he has the full reward of the Salah we read today
this sitting that we have today
everything I am doing you are doing
he has the full reward
he doesn't need to brag about anything
Allah has given him
Sayyidul awwalin wal akhirin
he is the leader of those who started
and those who shall end
so he needs no bragging
salallahu alayhi wasallam
it is an honor for us to associate with him
so much so that whoever
sends blessings and salutations
upon Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
once the hadith says
Allah will bless them
and salute them tenfold
subhanallah
and there is one narration that says
when you send blessings and salutations
upon Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
once
Allah sends blessings and salutations
upon you tenfold
and he removes ten of your sins
and he raises you ten ranks
and he adds ten rewards
onto your scale
subhanallah
salallahu wasallam wa baraka alayhi
wa ala alihi wa ashabihi
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless him
and his household
and all his companions
so Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala then
ends the first
or should I say the second set of verses
that were revealed
walirabbika fasbil
and for the sake of your Rabb
bear patience
and already
this was confirming what waraka had said
ibn nawfal
that you will have to bear patience
if it was smooth
this verse wouldn't have been there
because when you get up to deliver the goods
there is patience required
people won't listen
it's going to be difficult
you will have challenges
you will have people fighting you
you will have people from within
and people from outside
subhanallah
so what happened
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala blessed Muhammad
salallahu alayhi wasallam
by already informing him that
look you will need lots of patience
get up use the name of Allah
stand go forth and warn the people
when this happened he went down
and he chose Allahu Akbar
he chose a method
that was inspired to him also through revelation
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
what was that method
for three years
he called people quietly
how did he called him quietly
he started off with those
closest to him
none of them rejected
amazing
who was closest
his wife she had already accepted
she was the first one who accepted
as we said
Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha
amazing
she was the first to accept
and thereafter
who was next
well his cousin was a young boy
in his own house
because Abu Talib who was his uncle
had many children
and he couldn't really afford much
in terms of food and drink
so they began to look after some of his children
and Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
decided to take Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu
and to keep him with him
and he used to feed with Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
and accompany him
and he was the first
from amongst these young boys
who accepted Islam
I accept this message
I believe indeed there is only one Allah
and it is reported that Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu
did not worship an idol
why
because he grew up with Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
he watched the man
the man with character with conduct
no swear words
the temper was gone
he didn't have a temper
like what we have today
he didn't scream and yell
no
what a role model
immediately his wife accepted
this young boy accepted
subhanallah
Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu
the narration saying
the most correct narration saying
he was 10 years old at the time
and thereafter
there was a young boy
we need to make mention of him
he was a slave
who was freed by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
by the name of Zayd ibn Haritha
the only sahabi whose name is in the Quran
Zayd ibn Haritha
he was a slave
and he was freed by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
one day his parents came
to buy him back from Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
we want to buy this young boy
and the young boy looks at his parents
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam says
look I'm not going to stop you
you want to go
the father the mother say we're here to buy him
and he says no my parents
I'm going to stay here
they said what
you are choosing to remain a slave
with this particular man
he says I have seen from this man
that which I will never ever leave him for
never
I've seen qualities in him
that will make me remain with him
forever and ever
that's it
and this was a young boy talking
and he was a slave
imagine the treatment of this young man
young boy
he was so loved by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
the community used to call him Zayd ibn Muhammad
Zayd the son of Muhammad adopted son
before adoption was prohibited later on in Islam
so adopted son took the name
and they used to call him Zayd ibn Muhammad
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
these people accepted without betting an eyelid
without betting an eyelid
who else was there who accepted Islam
his daughters salallahu alayhi wasallam
obviously they knew their father
they loved him
he was their role model
he had no negative quality
not one negative quality
how many of us
cannot even communicate with our own daughters
let alone instruct them
we can't even communicate
they are on a different page
like I said moments ago
forget about different page
they're in another book altogether
Allahu Akbar
we first need to get them in the same book
then turn the pages until they come on to the right page
may Allah protect us
so where are we
where is Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
look his daughters surrender completely
we believe that this man is a messenger
if he says he's a messenger
we know him best
this is why Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
later in his life says
خيركم لأهله
وأنا خيركم لأهله
the best from amongst you
are those who are best to their families
starting with their wives and their children
and I want to tell you I'm the best to my families
he says
Subhanallah
and they bore witness
he was a man
he was a role model
superb
nothing wrong
Subhanallah
so his daughters accepted
then there was a man
his best friend
what was his name
Abu Bakr
Al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
for your information
that was just what he was known by
his name was Abdullah
and his father's name
they used to call him Ibn Abi Quhafah
so this man Abu Quhafah
his name was
Uthman
so Abu Bakr
radiallahu anhu
his proper name
is Abdullah ibn Uthman
radiallahu anhu
we need to know that
we need to memorize it
according to us
Ahlul Sunnah wal Jama'ah
we believe
that the best
who stepped on the earth
after the Anbiya
the most high in rank
after the prophets
to tread this earth
was Abdullah ibn Uthman
Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
remember that
the highest of all
after the prophets
his number comes next
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless him
and bless us all
so we need to know this man
who was he
Allahu Akbar
he came down
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
met him
and told him you know Abu Bakr
this is what happened to me
and he mentioned
he says immediately
he says you are the most truthful
so I bear witness that indeed
there is none worthy of worship besides Allah
and you are the messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
done
no questions asked
no batting eyelids
Nabi salallahu alayhi wa sallam says later on
that whenever I invited people to Islam
every one of them took a little bit of a moment
besides Abu Bakr
immediately
he just surrendered no even question
no movement
no nothing
these were the words
may Allah make us from those who can surrender
my beloved brothers and sisters
don't we want to join those companions in the Akhirah
and in Jannah
in Paradise
well there is a way to do that
if we surrender
to the instruction of Rasulullah
salallahu alayhi wa sallam
whether it suits us or not
we will automatically then become from amongst those
who join those ranks
may Allah grant us those ranks
even though they seem distant
but from the mercy of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
He can grant that to us
so this was Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
he accepted Islam
and thereafter
he was an intelligent man
a wise man
well respected
he had
you know very eloquent
he was very generous
he used to help people
very easy to talk to
a good sociable man
and he was the best friend of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
he also had very sound morals
he was also of very very high standing in society
what he chose to do
this was all in silence
the message was being delivered
personally one by one
yet Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
had not yet got up
to tell the people in public
that oh people accept Islam
that happened the time later
as we said
this silent call to Islam
lasted three years
it was known as a da'wah al-sirriya
the silent call
so Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
went to talk to some of his friends one by one
all of them accepted
who were these friends
and who were these people
Uthman
subhanallah
Ibn Affan radiallahu anhu
he accepted readily
Abdul Rahman ibn Awf radiallahu anhu
Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas radiallahu anhu
Az-Zubair ibn Al-Awwam radiallahu anhu
Talhah ibn Ubaydillah radiallahu anhu
these were some of the people who had accepted
with the effort of Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
all he had to do was go to them
and tell them you know
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
this is what happened to him
he's now a messenger of Allah
and he is coming to us
what is he teaching
he's teaching good character, good conduct
worship Allah alone
no idols, no sticks, no stones
respect your parents
even if they are non-muslim
meaning even if they are bad
and they are engaging in shirk and so on
you don't listen to anything
wherein there is transgress
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
but you obey the other instructions
you respect them
and you honor your guest
you look after the rights of everyone
you don't cheat people
you don't steal
all this was brilliant
because it was
elevating their status even more
and they were also taught that there is a heaven
there is a hell
you are responsible for your deeds
you are answerable
you will be resurrected after you die
these were the teachings of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
exactly the same teachings as Jesus may peace be upon him
exactly the same teachings as Moses may peace be upon him
Musa alayhi salam and Isa alayhi salam
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
Insha'Allah tomorrow
we will go into these early believers
what happened
what did they endure in the early days
and then how was the announcement made to Quraysh
and what happened as a result
until we meet again
with salallahu wa salam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad
subhanallahi bi hamdihi
subhanaka allahumma bi hamdik
nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk